Privacy and Surveillance Quiz
Privacy and Surveillance Self Assessment
Answer the 7 questions below and get feedback with links to the pages you’ll want to review!
1. My digital identity is…
 …not something I worry about. I’m online everyday and I haven’t had any trouble so far.
 …definitely a big part of my life, but I monitor it carefully. I don’t want any ‘digital dirt’ holding me back!
 …non-existent. I’m a really private person and I don’t feel comfortable sharing anything about my life online.
2. The best thing about being online is…
 …social media.
 …the convenience of being able to bank, shop, and pay from my phone.
 …keeping up my personal brand.
3. When interacting online, my biggest worry is…
 …cyberbullying.
 …identity theft and/or keeping my personal information private.
 …computer viruses.
4. When it comes to online convenience vs. privacy, I lean toward…
 …keeping my search data and online profile(s) private.
 …convenience. I can never remember all my passwords and I like it when sites remember my profile so that only the items I’m most interested in are featured.
 …a middle ground between these two. It’s convenient for some of my data to be kept and I don’t mind some targeted advertising, but I don’t really want to sacrifice my personal privacy.
5. I think managing my online identity is…
 …a piece of cake. Besides, I can just close my account or delete my blog later if I want to.
 …manageable, but I’m always worried I’ve missed something important about safeguarding my online data.
 …really overwhelming.
6.When I'm on a public wi-fi…
 …I don’t think it is safe to use public wi-fi so I just avoid using it.
 …I access online banking to make a transaction
 …I make sure that I am using a legit wi-fi network, and I do not access to a website that requires my personal information
7.Uploading photos….
 …is risky because people can retrieve personal information from my photos.
 …is fun, I love to share my pictures with my friends.
 …is good, if I make sure that the geotagging feature is off on my smartphone.
8. I think blogs and wikis are…
 …creatures from a sci-fi movie.
 …cluttering up the web with meaningless information.
 …a great way to collaborate with classmates and to showcase artifacts of my academic and professional work.
9. Would you ever consider dating someone you met online?
 Yes, why not?
 Maybe, but I’d want to find out a lot about someone before I agree to meet up with an online acquaintance in person.
 Not a chance. People can make up whatever they want to online.
10. Do you think texting is the same as talking on the phone?
 Sure! In fact, I text my friends more than I call them.
 Not really. I do text to make plans or keep up with friends about everyday stuff but for anything personal, I wait to discuss it face-to-face or call from a private setting.
 Not at all! Texting can be tricky. I know people who’ve had their pictures and private conversations forwarded to someone’s entire contact list!!
11. Is filesharing or downloading pirated media ok?
 Yes. Everyone does it. Besides, most of the media I share and download is from people who don’t need any more money and the smaller, independent artists are just happy to get the exposure.
 Not really. Even though the distribution model isn’t keeping up with technology right now, it’s still illegal to upload media you don’t have copyright privileges for.
 Absolutely not. It’s totally illegal. If I want access to quality entertainment in the future, I need to make sure artists get paid.
12.Online gaming is…
 …for socially awkward geeks. These people really need to get a life!
 …a gateway to online addiction.
 …great! It can be intellectually challenging and creative. Online gaming beats watching hours of mindless television.


Dependency feedback:


1.Participating online offers many conveniences and great opportunities to share and learn with others. It’s great that you haven’t experienced any setbacks, but it might also be wise to learn about protecting your computer, your mobile and safeguarding your personal information.
It sounds like you’re already thinking about curating your digital identity. For help with creating a digital tattoo that you can be proud of, check out our managing your digital profile page.
It’s wise to carefully consider how you participate online, especially if privacy is important to you. That said, there are fantastic opportunities to enrich your learning and to build social and professional networks using digital tools. If you want to dive into the digital world, but want to maintain your privacy, check out our pages on VPNs, WiFi hotspot security, and outwitting pharming. If you ultimately decide that the internet isn’t for you, we have a page for that as well.
2.Using social media tools can be an ideal way to share content and keep in touch with others, just make sure that you know who owns the data you put online, and how that data is being used.
Banking, shopping, and paying with your mobile are really convenient, but sending out your financial information over the internet can be risky. Make sure that you check out our pages on protecting your mobile, and outwitting farming and identity theft to keep your financial data safe!
Using digital tools can be a great way to cultivate an online brand and get noticed by employers. Just make sure that you check in frequently so that your online brand still reflects the IRL you! Whether you’re just starting out, or are a seasoned pro, our overexposed, and sections on e-portfolios can help you put your best digital foot forward.


3.Cyberbullying, cyberstalking, and sextortion do exist and can be a very serious issue. If you’re feeling threatened or unsafe online, contact your local authorities.
Someone misusing your personal information is a scary idea, but there are many things you can do to outwit identity theft. Consider adjusting privacy settings and erasing your digital path for starters.
Getting a virus is a hassle and it can often be avoided. Learn how to protect your computer with firewalls and wireless safety.
4.Having personalized information presented to you is helpful, and is often made possible by a website’s cookies. This can be potentially problematic. By adjusting your browser and social networking settings you can ensure that your information stays secure.
Be sure to visit our page on cookie settings, and erasing your digital path, so that your information is protected.
Controlling your cookies and using best practices on public wi-fi can go a long way toward guarding your personal information. You can also make exceptions for certain trusted websites when it’s more convenient.
5.Your digital identity is like a tattoo. Once information is put online it is very difficult to remove. Learn about the challenges of removing oneself from the internet.
If you are actively managing your online activity, you are well on your way to creating a positive digital identity. You can learn more about managing the digital you with our digital dossier, and managing your online profile pages.
Some good information can go a long way toward building your confidence to interact safely online. Consider working your way through the protect module on this site to learn about ways to protect your mobile, personal information, and data.
6.It sounds like you are aware of risks associated with public wi-fi. You can still use public wi-fi as long as you are able to secure your wi-fi device.
You might want to read “Wi-fi hotspot security” to learn about the risks associated with online banking.
You are on the right track! Public wi-fi networks aren’t always secure, so waiting until you can access a private wi-fi network to share private information makes sense! If you absolutely have to private information, try using a VPN, and practicing good wi-fi hotspot hygiene.
7.All photos contain metadata that might reveal your personal information. You can remove your metadata, or change your smartphone settings if you do not want to reveal your personal information.
Make sure when you upload your photo, you are aware of what your photos may reveal about you .
Excellent! You are on the right track. If you do not want to be found, it is always good to disable geotagging from your smartphone. You can also go one step further by investigating how the data you upload can be aggregated by third parties.
8.You’re not alone in being new to the many tools freely available online. Explore our pages on creating online content, and community discussion boards to find out the basics and to see if these tools are right for you.
In spite of this criticism, many online tools can allow you to connect with family, friends, classmates or colleagues in meaningful and useful ways. Explore our pages on creating online content, MOOCs, and e-portfolios to discover some reasons why you might want to participate as well as any cautions you need to keep in mind along the way.
It’s great that you’ve already discovered ways to make use of the many online tools available. Our section on e-portfolios can help you build on what you’re already putting out there. Just be sure to check out our fact checking, intellectual copyright, and creative commons pages to make sure that the content you’re sharing truly belongs to you.
9.More and more people would agree with you. In fact, studies conducted by the PEW Research Centre suggest that almost half of Americans know someone who uses online dating sites. That said, there are good reasons to exercise caution if you plan to hook up with an online partner. See our online dating page to avoid common pitfalls and keep yourself safe.
You’re right to be cautious about someone you’ve only met online. Not everyone is who they say they are. Visit our page on online dating for advice.
It’s wise to be skeptical of what you read on the internet, but meeting someone online isn’t necessarily something to be ashamed of. Read more on our online dating page to learn more about the potential benefits and pitfalls of meeting people online.
10.While many people appreciate that you don’t have loud private conversations in public, remember that texting is not the same as talking on the phone. Having digital records of your communication means that others can use it in ways that you may not have intended. Read up on texting apps and protecting your mobile to keep your data safe.
It sounds like you’ve already thought carefully about your texting habits. Be sure to use the same consideration when sharing online content.
Unfortunately, this kind of thing does happen so it’s always wise to be mindful of what you share in a text. However, there are just as many examples of using texting for positive outcomes too.
11.Copyright laws in Canada are still evolving and are different from those in the United States. While it may be legal to download some media, uploading or file sharing something you don’t have rights to is not.
You’re right that filesharing can be illegal and that there an increasing number of alternatives sources for obtaining or using media. Creative Commons licenses often allow sharing, though it’s important to note any requests for attribution or restrictions on modifying or profiting from other’s work.
It sounds like you are well aware of the copyright violations associated with filesharing. You may also want to become familiar with the latest proposals for Canadian copyright reform and some alternative ways that creators are making their work available for use.
12.Lots of people play video games and lead fulfilling lives. As with any social media or digital technology, it’s about cultivating a life of balance.
Online gambling and digital detox therapy are a real part of our virtual lifestyle, but online gaming isn’t necessarily a culprit. While there are people who need to seek help limiting the hours they spend online, this can just as easily be associated with email, texting, or social media habits. As with any good thing, it’s up to the individual to find a balance that’s right for them.
Lots of online games include opportunities to be creative, explore new identities and to challenge oneself intellectually. It’s important to be sure that your relationships outside of the online environment are meaningful as well, and that you maintain a healthy physical, emotional and intellectual balance. ﻿









